>> Evgenii Ray: So
we completed the step one and step two and
the next part will be to load some data.
So when our viewport touches
the bottom observer,
now we need to render some items.
Basically, we're going to replicate
the exercise that we did before
on laser scroller,
one thing you may also notice, since they,
virtualization is the sliding window.
So we also need to maintain the state
where we keep the start and
then pointer to know what exactly
the window we're currently rendering.
So we'll create a new start and then
variables on the virtual list state and
when we load the new chunk of data,
we're gonna increment the end
pointer to specify that now we're
rendering the page 1 and page 2.
So this will be our next
part of the exercise, so
let's get back to the code now.
>> Evgenii Ray: So
here inside effect function,
>> Evgenii Ray: So let's see,
we call the handle intersection
observer method, but
now we need to implement the bottom
observer, which already predefined here.
So let's write some logic first,
we need to fetch the data.
So for that,
>> Evgenii Ray: Actually,
we need to look for the properties first
that we are defining on the virtual list.
So there are four properties
that we are going to utilize,
the first one is the getPage.
So the getPage is just a function
that takes the page number and
returns the promise of some generic data.
So it's kind of a data function that we're
gonna use to fetch the next chunk of data.
Then we have the getTemplate function,
the getTemplate function accepts
the single piece of data and
returns the newly created HTML element.
So we're gonna use that, so the virtual
list will be able to accept some
generic HTML template, so
it's gonna work with any template.
So the template is defined by
the user of our virtual list.
And there is also updateTemplate function,
which is very similar to getTemplate,
but it also accepts the element which
already exists in a virtual list.
When we call the updateTemplate,
instead of creating a new element,
we take the new data and just update
the existing element within the list.
So we don't really create
a new HTML element.
And there is a page size.
We need to know how many elements
we render per single API call.
This will tell us what is the limit
that we can render on the page.
So for instance, if the page size is 10,
then we can say that we just want to
render two pages of data all the time.
So this means 20 elements
will be the maximum number
of nodes in the virtual list.
And let's go to index html first and
define this attributes,
right now they all now's,
so first let's create
a function that will generate
the HTML element for us.
So here I will, I'm going to build
the function that's going to accept two
arguments, they don't end the element,
so let's start implementing this.
So if the element is not provided,
then we're
going to use the document fragment
that we already used before,
to create a new HTML element,
so let's do that.
Template content call note through and
then first element child,
so it's basically
the same thing that we
already keep it for.
Now we want to update the cart element,
we know that,
we use the same data title and the body,
so we want to update the title and
the body of the cart, so
let's query this cart title and cart body.
>> Evgenii Ray: So
let's use cart query selector all, so
we're gonna query the cart title and
also cart body content,
so now we need to update the cart title.
Okay, now we need to update
the data that we received from,
we need to update the data inside HTML
element but that we received from API,
so we use the text content attribute,
let's modify it to title.
>> Evgenii Ray: And
then let's do cart body, text content, and
Textcontent.tatum.body, and
then we return the following cart.
So now we can just copy this function and
use it as the get template and
update template.
So when we have the get template,
only the datum is provided,
so we always generate a new element.
But when we use the MLA template,
then the element is provided, so
we reuse existing element and
update the data.
Then the page size,
we can set it to be 10,
because I know that our
mockdb returns 10 elements.
And the getPage, we're going to
use the db.getPage function,
so let's use the pointer, and
let's provide the pointer here.
So let's now go back to the virtual
list and use the properties that we set.
So we're going to write the code
in the handle bottom observer now,
so first we need to fetch the data.
Okay, so we're gonna use the properties
that we set on our class and
the property that I need is geth.
So it's a function that will return
the data, this function accepts
the pointer and I know that we need
to create a new pointer on the state.
So let's assume that there is end pointer
that will give us the latest rendered page
number, and let's evade this data because
I know that it should trust the promise.
So let's create the end pointer and
the start pointer on state so
we initialize it to zero.
>> Evgenii Ray: And then, so
we increasing the pointer by one when
we can do in the bottom up server,
so the next time it executes it will
be one, two, and three and so on.
Okay, now we need to convert
the data to the HTML elements, so
basically we're slightly repeating
the exercise we did before,
so let's create the fragment
to accumulate all the.
>> Evgenii Ray: Now we're gonna look for
the data
>> Evgenii Ray: And
we're going to create a new cart
we are going to pass the data
datum.title and datum.body.
>> Evgenii Ray: So there are the, there
is a minor mistake, we need to utilize
the properties that we set, so
it's going to be the getTemplate function.
So this template function
accepts the datum, and
since we're not reusing any element,
so we're just generating the new cart.
And then we just append the new
card to the fragment, so
we append the cart to the fragment.
And once the this is appended and
we generated all the content,
now we can get the reference to our list,
so we already have the function for that.
Get virtual list, and
then we append the fragment
to the list, list append fragment.
>> Evgenii Ray: So that's probably it, and
now let's try to run our
index.html to see if it works.
>> Evgenii Ray: I need to remove my word.
>> Evgenii Ray: It definitely works,
It's getting,
so we place it somewhere here and
let's remove that one,
>> Evgenii Ray: And refresh the page.
So now if we scroll down.
>> Evgenii Ray: We see that
our new data is loaded, and
this is the end of the current part.